Create a Virtual Machine

/
Azure Administrator Associate 
/
Administrator 
Lab Steps
Task 1: Sign in to Azure Portal
Go to the Azure portal by clicking on the  button or by using URL https://portal.azure.com.

Note: It is recommended to use incognito mode to avoid Azure portal cache related issues.

If it automatically logs into any other azure account, please logout of it and clear cache.

Sign in with your given username and password on Azure portal.

If login is not working. Click on   and start the lab again.

Task 2: Create an Azure Virtual Machine
Click on Create a resource button



In the search box, enter Virtual Machine.



Select Create and enter the following values in the Basics tab.

Resource group : Select rg_eastus_XXXXX

Instance details:

Virtual machine name: Enter WhizlabsVM

Region: Select East US

Availability options: Select No infrastructure redundancy required

Security type: Select Standard

Image: Select Windows Server 2019 Datacenter - Gen2

Size: Select Standard_B2s

Administrator account:

Username: Enter vm1

Password: Enter a password

Confirm password: Re-enter the password

Inbound port rules:

Public inbound ports: Select Allow selected ports

Select inbound ports: Select HTTP(80), SSH(22), RDP(3389)





Click on the Next: Disks button and select the following:

OS disk type: Select Standard SSD



Click on the Next: Networking button, leave all values as default and click on the Next: Management button and select following details:

Boot diagnostics: Select Disable



Click on the Review + Create button and then select Create.



Task 3: Understand Deployment details
Click on Deployment details.



Here we can see that, by the configurations we made while creating the virtual machine, we have deployed a virtual machine with a network interface, virtual network, a public IP address and a network security group.



Task 4: RDP into the Virtual Machine
In the search box at the top of Azure Portal, search for Virtual Machines, select WhizlabsVM from the list and click on Connect.



Select RDP and click on Download RDP File button.

NOTE: If you are a Linux or MAC user:

Download the RDP software and install it.

Once installed, open the software and click on Add PC.

Connect to your virtual machine using its public IP address and click on Add.

Right click and open the PC, Enter username and password in the popup and click on continue on all further popups.



Open the download RDP file and select Connect on the displayed prompt.



On the Windows Security prompt, click on more choices.



Click on Use a different account and enter the username and password you specified while creating the Virtual Machine and select OK.



You may receive a certificate warning during the sign-in process. Select Yes to continue.



After successfully logging into the virtual machine, wait until the windows boots up and is ready to use.

If you see this message Do you want to allow your PC to be discoverable by other PCs and devices on this network? Click on Yes

Your Virtual Machine is ready to use

A Server Manager window might open by default



Completion and Conclusions
You have successfully logged into Azure Portal

You have successfully created an Azure Virtual Machine

You have successfully understood the Deployment details

You have successfully made an RDP connection into the Virtual Machine

End Lab
You have successfully completed this lab

Click on Logout in Azure Portal by clicking on the logout button in the top right corner inside Azure Profile

Click on  once you have completed the Lab
